Day 1
welcome to Ethical Hacking Learned Github basics

Day 2
how to download kali linux in computer,extracting and install how tio download virtualbox in computer,extracting and install

Day 3
command lines:Example on nmap and Basics. TARGET SPECIFICATION -iL : Input target list from a file nmap -iL targets.txt Scenario: You have multiple IPs or domains in a file (targets.txt) and want to scan all of them at once.

HOST DISCOVERY -sL: List Scan – list targets only nmap -sL zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Just check the hostname resolution for review, without scanning ports.
-sn: Ping Scan – check if host is up, no ports scanned nmap -sn zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Confirm if the host is live before deeper scanning.

-Pn: Assume host is up, skip ping check nmap -Pn zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Use when host blocks ICMP/ping (still want port scan).

SCAN TECHNIQUES -sS: TCP SYN scan (stealth scan) nmap -sS zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Identify open ports without completing TCP handshake.
-sT: TCP connect scan nmap -sT zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Useful if you're running as a normal user (non-root).

-sA: ACK scan nmap -sA zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Check firewall rules or filtering behavior.

-sU: UDP scan nmap -sU zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Identify open UDP services (like DNS, SNMP).

PORT SPECIFICATION AND SCAN ORDER -p : Scan specific ports nmap -p 80,443 zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Limit scan to known web service ports.
--exclude-ports : Skip specific ports nmap --exclude-ports 22,25 zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Avoid scanning SSH and mail ports.

-F: Fast scan (limited ports) nmap -F zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Quick scan of the most common ports.

-r: Scan ports sequentially nmap -r zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Avoid randomization for analysis or teaching purposes.

SERVICE/VERSION DETECTION -sV: Detect service versions nmap -sV zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Understand what software/version is running on open ports.
--version-intensity nmap -sV --version-intensity 2 zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Perform lighter version detection to avoid detection.

--version-light nmap -sV --version-light zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Use the most common probes only.

--version-all nmap -sV --version-all zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Perform a full and deep version probe.

--version-trace nmap -sV --version-trace zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: See how Nmap tries to identify each service.

SCRIPT SCAN -sC: Run default scripts nmap -sC zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Run built-in checks (like SSH version, HTTP headers).
--script=<script>: Run specific NSE script nmap --script=http-title zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Extract the page title from the site (simple recon).

TIMING AND PERFORMANCE -T<0-5>: Set timing (0 = paranoid, 5 = insane) nmap -T4 zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Faster scan suitable for internal testing.

OS DETECTION -O: Try to identify OS nmap -O zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Helps understand what operating system is running (Linux/Windows).

OUTPUT OPTIONS -oN, -oX, -oS, -oG: Output formats nmap -oN nmap_scan.txt zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Save your scan result to a file.

-v, -vv, -vvv: Increase verbosity nmap -vv zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Useful during live scans for detailed output.

MISCELLANEOUS -A: Aggressive mode (OS detect, version, scripts, traceroute) nmap -A zero.webappsecurity.com Scenario: Perform an all-in-one detailed scan for beginners to understand capabilities.
Purpose This collection is part of a broader cybersecurity knowledge base tailored for:

SOC Analysts (L1) Vulnerability Assessors & Penetration Testers (L2) Advanced Red/Blue Team Practitioners (L3) Stay tuned as more tools and tactical references will be added to this repository in future releases.

"Master the command-line, master the network."

Day 4
ETHICAL HACKING in Networking

IP Address An IP address is a unique numerical label assigned to each device connected to a computer network that uses the Internet Protocol for communication.
It identifies both the host (device) and the network it belongs to.

Example (IPv4): 192.168.1.10

It is typically written as four decimal numbers separated by dots (called dotted-decimal notation).

Each number ranges from 0 to 255.

Network A network is a collection of devices connected together to share resources and communicate.
In IP addressing, the network part of an IP address identifies the specific network.

Devices on the same network can communicate directly.

The network address is derived by applying a subnet mask to an IP address.

Subnet A subnet (subnetwork) is a logical subdivision of an IP network.
Subnetting divides a large network into smaller, more manageable pieces.

It improves routing efficiency and enhances security.

Subnetting is done by using a subnet mask which separates the network part and the host part of an IP address.

Subnet Mask A subnet mask is a 32-bit number used to divide an IP address into network and host parts.
It looks similar to an IP address, e.g., 255.255.255.0.

The bits set to 1 correspond to the network part; bits set to 0 correspond to the host part.

Day 4 
Assignment review
